Chris Ahlstrom
Test MIDI Files for midicvt and midicvtpp
2014-04-08 to 2016-03-27

The following files are standard test files for the MIDI conversion
functionality exercised in the ../test_script file.

   allofarow.mid (not yet included, but causes issues in Sequencer64 project)
   choo2xg.mid
   CountryStrum.mid
   Dixie031.mid
   dixie03.mid
   Dixie04.mid
   ex1.mid
   example1.mid
   example2.mid
   example3.mid
   example4.mid
   example5.mid
   tdixie03.mid
   wonworld.mid
   mrroboto_with_lyrics.mid

The main feature of the last MIDI file, apart from the fact that it
credits the wrong music group with the composition, is that it
contains, in an obfuscated format, lyric events.  When played by
timidity from the command line, these lyrics appear on the console.
Yet viewing the file, the lyrics are broken up (due to timing, no doubt).
Here are the entries for one word from the lyrics (with intermediate
events removed):

   5856 Meta Lyric "(Se"
   5904 Meta Lyric "cret, "

We used the following command to convert the file b4uacuse-new-format.midi,
which was arranged for a non-GM synth, the Yamaha PSS-790, into the more
GM-compliant file b4uacuse-GM-format.midi:

   $ midicvtpp --m2m GM_PSS-790_Multi.ini -i b4uacuse-new-format.midi \
         -o b4uacuse-GM-format.midi

Played via the following command, it stills seems to need some work, so we
will check how midicvtpp and the mapping work:

   $ timidity b4uacuse-GM-format.midi

The following file will be added to the tests.  It is a MIDI file created by
importing a MIDI file into the nice Seq24 sequencer, laying out each of its
tracks as a pattern in the Seq24 song editor, and then saving the file.

   b4uacuse-seq24.midi

Currently, "midicvt b4uacuse-seq24.midi" exits with the following error:

   ? Error at offset 80655 (13b0f)
     Error: Garbage at end 'Expecting 'MTrk', but input[0] == '$' [0x24]'

It turns out the Seq24 generate files with non-MIDI-compliant output after
the last track.  This extra output, called the "proprietary" section, is
what causes the error.  Sequencer24 has been upgraded to generate a
MIDI-compliant "proprietary" section.  The following file is written in that
new format:

   b4uacuse-new-format.midi

Now midicvt can handle that file, even if we use an unknown track tag (e.g.
"Mjnk") instead of the expected "MTrk".  Also, the options --strict and
--ignore have been added to midicvt to add control over how it reacts to
these kinds of "tracks".  To see the effect of ignore, the following file is
b4uacuse-new-format.midi with the last 'MTrk' changed to the bogus tag
'MUnk':

   b4uacuse-non-mtrk

Without the --ignore option, midicvt still shows this long track in the
ASCII output.  With it, midicvt ignores it, as the MIDI specification
mandates.  (This file is not yet in the test script).

Also, midicvt did not show "MThd" (instead of "MFile") near the beginning of
the output, and it should, and we should be able to handle this on the
conversion back to MIDI!  This has been fixed.

# vim: ts=3 sw=3 et ft=sh
