Chris Ahlstrom
Test Files for midicvt and midicvtpp
2014-04-08 to 2015-08-21

The following two command lines were run in sequence to generate the results
files in test-files/results:

   ./midicvt --report -i ../test-files/ex1.mid -o ex1.asc 2> ex1-report.txt

   ./midicvt --report -i ../test-files/ex1-recompiled.mid -o ex1-recompiled.asc
       2> ex1-recompiled-report.txt

The input files are:

   ex1.mid

      The original test file provided with the midicomp project.  It has
      some oddities in it, including a two-parameter version of the time
      signature event (which is flagged as an "Invalid time signature" by
      timidity), and missing "note on" bytes for most of the notes.

  ex1-recompiled.mid

      This file is the result of the following command, which takes the
      ex1.asc output file and reconverts it back to MIDI, as a kind of
      round-trip test.  It is to be noted that the compiling restores many
      of the byte values that are missing from the original ex1.mid file.

         ./midicvt -c ex1.asc ex1-recompiled.mid

The result files are:

   ex1.asc

      Provides the text version of ex1.mid, as obtained by the first command
      at the top of this README file.

   ex1-mthd.asc

      The same as ex1.asc, except that the header tag "MFile" is replaced
      by the less-puzzling "MThd".

   ex1-report.txt

      Provides a more detailed "stderr" dump of the data processed by
      libmidifile, to help see what bytes are being processed.  The first
      column is supposed to be the offset into the MIDI file.  Numbers are
      shown in decimal and hex for better understanding.

   ex1-recompiled.asc

      Provides the text version of ex1-recompiled.mid, as obtained by the
      second command at the top of this README file.  It should be noted
      that this output file is identical to the ex1.asc output file.

   ex1-recompiled-report.txt

      Like ex1-report.txt, but for ex1-recompiled.mid.

   ex1.xxd

      Provides ex1.mid transformed by "xxd -c 1", with annotations added
      about the events, including events that are missing.

   ex1-recompiled.xxd

      Provides ex1-recompiled.mid transformed by "xxd -c 1", with
      annotations.

   ex1-verbose.asc

      The conversion of ex1.mid using the "verbose" option.  MORE TO COME.

   ex1-recompiled-verbose.mid

      Illustrates that compiling ex1-verbose.asc yields a file that matches
      ex1-recompiled.mid.  In other words, the normal and verbose ASCII
      representations of ex1.mid both compile to the same (enhanced by
      midicvt) MIDI file.

We also tried some of the test files from the midi2text project.

   choo2xg.mid and choo2xg.asc

This MIDI file, when converted to a text file using the --time option, yields
a text file that matches ch002xg.asc, so we can see that midicvt's conversion
matches that of midi2text.  Compiling it back from the text file yields:

   choo2xg-recompiled.mid

This file is a lot smaller than choo2xg.mid, but when both are play via
timidity, they sound the same.  We haven't checked yet.

# vim: ts=3 sw=3 et ft=sh
